

Many Christians believe that the Bible says that homosexuality is a sin.   I don't.  The Bible, as a whole, does not condemn homosexuality at all, not even a little bit.  I believe that the Bible has far more to say about prejudice, and fear, and hatred, and how we must treat people unlike ourselves, than it has to say about homosexuality.

Please indulge me a moment in a little experiment.  Do you believe the Bible says that the Earth sits unmoving at the center of the Universe and that everything revolves around us?  I don't mean what do you believe, I mean what do you believe the Bible says.  And I don't mean, does the Bible have words or phrases that state or imply that the Earth doesn't move.  I mean, do you believe that part of the purpose of the Bible to teach us that the Earth doesn't move, and that believing or teaching that the Earth goes around the Sun is wrong, dangerous, and sinful?

Four hundred years ago, most Christian leaders believed the Bible said exactly that.  We know they believed this because they worked so hard to ignore, argue against, and suppress the ample evidence that the Earth did move around the Sun.  The most significant evidence that the Earth moved around the sun was presented by Galileo, an extremely well respected member of both the Scientific and Christian communities.  These men were highly educated, certainly experts on the Bible, and I think they were being honest about why they were fighting so hard against this evidence.  They believed that the evidence significantly contradicted the Bible.

The Bible hasn't change that much in the last four-hundred years.  Yet nobody today believes that the Bible says that the Earth doesn't go around the Sun.  This isn't just about the divergence of science and religion, what people think the Bible teaches us has changed.  The Bible hasn't changed, what people think it says has.

I don't believe that the purpose of the Bible is to teach us that homosexuality is a sin.  If you think the Bible condemns homosexuality, and you care about what the Bible actually says, I urge you, I beg you, I pray that you, read it again.

