
In 1844, the Methodiest Church, the largest Methodest denomination in America, split into two denominations over the issue of slavery.  The southern congregations believed that the Bible makes no direct condemnation of slavery, and that both the Bible and Christian tradition contain numerous examples is support of the naturalness of slavery.   Given this Biblical support for slavery, those who called slavery a sin and worked to end the practice of slavery were labeled radical liberals, advocating unrealistic pipe-dreams that would have desasterous social and economic results.

It's easy to believe that the Methodist Church split when and because the whole country split at the start of the Civil War, but that is not the case at all.  The Methodest Church split a full 15 years before the shocking and desasterous national separation in 1860.  Back in 1844, when the Methodist Church split, the southern states were relatively much more powerfull than they are today, Lincoln was a little known Illinoi Senator still loosing debates and elections on the issue of slavery, and few if anyone believed that the North would do anything to prevoke the South, or that the South would be forced to susceed.  No, the split of the Methodist Church was not forced upon the church by outside forces, instead it was purly an internal disagreement about the acceptablity of slavery in the eyes of God.  The Methodist Church remained divided into North and South, over the issue of salvery for almost a century, until 1939, 'when slavery was no longer an issue'(1).  Of course, slavery directly hadn't been a real issue for the Churches for a long time before 1939, and never truly was the core issue.

It is impossible to force or keep another person as a slave unless one has been taught, or otherwise come to believe that that other person is somehow less worthy of freedom, civil rights, and the love of God than you are.  Morally a lesser person than you.  When one person takes another as a slave, we can write that off as singluar aboration, a crime of one person against another.  When a whole socioty is based socially and economically on a system of slavery, that requires an almost unimaginable, even unthinkable, amount of horrific negative teaching and indoctrination.  And I'm not speaking just of the south here.  In the early 1800, until well after the Civil War, the wealth of our whole country was based on cotton planted and picked by seperate nation of slaves.  The whole country was part of the socioty that allowed itself to believe that people of color were somehow morally less than white people.

The United States has come a long way in reducing the systematic teaching and practice of fear and hatred of people of color, but as we are regularly reminded we, we still have a long way to go.   Black churches are still regularly burned, people are still lynched and shot simply and specifically because they are black, American police officers are so fearful and suspicious of black people that routine trafic stops escalate into murders, orgainzations devoted to the hatred of people of color still attract and hold the hearts and minds of thousands of Americans, and Sunday morning is still the most segrigated four hours in America.  And this horrific list doesn't begin to include the numerous and constant slights, neglects, offenses, and social and economic unfairnesses faced by black people, and other people of color, that don't rise to a level of newsworthyness.  All this dispite the nearly two centuries of work by people on all sides of good concious to end this system of fear and hatred.

I can't help but believe that if the Methodist Church had taken a more radical and progressive stand aganst slavery, fear, and hatred earlier, dispite the Bible's aparent support for slavery, that we might not now have as far to go down the road to peace, justice, and love as we currently do.  In the years leading up to the split of the Methodist church into North and South, church leaders actively suppressed the more radical efforts of the abolishinists, and worked to keep anti-slavery statements out of official Methodist doctorines.  They did this out of fear that such statements would lead to a split in the church.  The Methodist Church thought it was faced with choosing between the evils of slavery and the evils of a divided church.  In the end they got both.

Now, in the early part of the 21st century, the United Methodist Church faces a similar choice between two evils.  Some members of the UMC believe that "the practice of homosexuality is incompatible with Christian teaching", and that homosexuals are incapable of "the highest standards of holy living in the world".  Other members of the UMC emphatically disagree.  Some members of the UMC believe that the Bible comdems homosexuality both in the past and in modern times.  Others believe that the Bible condems homosexuality in modern times no more than it condones slavery in modern times.  This is not a minor or easy issue for the UMC.  Both sides believe that they are acting according to God's will, and yet there is significant fear that this issue could lead to another spit in the Methodist Church.  No longer United.

Homosexuals in America suffer far more physical, social, and economic violence than Blacks and other People of Color.  The only mitigatige factor is that it's easier to hide your sexual preference than the color of your skin.  We members of the United Methodist Church can not and must not pretend that we are not a contributing factor in that systemic violence.  We must not let ourselves believe that what we say officially as a Church only affects a small minority that can be served by other churches.  The statements we make in our Book of Dicipline effect all of socioty, all of the world.  Yes, we do have offical policies specifically opposed to violence against homosexuals, but you can not call someone "incapable of holy living" and expect that it won't have horrific effects in the world at large.  And as we can see from the case of slavery, these horrific effects linger long after the official statements have changed.

For me, the fact that homosexuality is the only 



